= Configurable

Class configurations for the command line and web.

== Description

Configurable adds methods to declare class configurations. Configurations are
inheritable, delegate to methods, and have hash-like access. Configurable
constructs configs such that they easily map to config files, web forms, and
the command line.

== Usage

Declare configurations using the config method. Config generates accessors
that initialize with the default value.

  class ConfigClass
    include Configurable
    config :flag, false    # a flag
    config :switch, true   # an on/off switch
    config :num, 3.14      # a number
    config :lst, [1,2,3]   # a list of integers
    config :str, 'one'     # a string
  end

  c = ConfigClass.new
  c.str                    # => 'one'

Configs may also be accessed through config (a kind of delegating hash):

  c.str = 'two'
  c.config[:str]           # => 'two'
  c.config[:str] = 'three'
  c.str                    # => 'three'

  c.config.to_hash
  # => {
  # :flag => false, 
  # :switch => true,
  # :num => 3.14,
  # :lst => [1, 2, 3], 
  # :str => 'three'
  # }

Configs may be imported and exported as simple objects which easily translate
to and from user interfaces, be they config files, web forms, or the command
line.

Config files:

  c.config.import(
    'flag'   => true,
    'num'    => 6.022
  )
  
  c.config.export
  # => {
  # 'flag'   => true, 
  # 'switch' => true,
  # 'num'    => 6.022,
  # 'lst'    => [1, 2, 3], 
  # 'str'    => 'three'
  # }

Web forms:

  params = {
    'flag'   => 'true',      # checkbox
    'switch' => 'true',      # radio button
    'num'    => '2.71',      # text input
    'lst'    => ['2', '6']   # list input (lst[]=2&lst[]=6)
  }
  
  c.config.import(params).to_hash
  # => {
  # :flag    => true, 
  # :switch  => true,
  # :num     => 2.71, 
  # :lst     => [2, 6],
  # :str     => 'three'
  # }

Command Line:

  c.config.parse %w{a --flag --no-switch --num 6.022 --lst 7 --lst 8,9 b c}
  # => ['a', 'b', 'c']

  c.config.to_hash
  # => {
  # :flag   => true, 
  # :switch => false,
  # :num    => 6.022,
  # :lst    => [7, 8, 9], 
  # :str    => 'three'
  # }

  stdout = []
  parser = c.config.parser do |psr|
    psr.on '-h', '--help', 'print help' do
      stdout << "options:"
      stdout << psr
    end
  end
  
  parser.parse('--help')
  "\n" + stdout.join("\n")
  # => %q{
  # options:
  #         --flag                       a flag
  #     -h, --help                       print help
  #         --lst LST...                 a list of integers (1,2,3)
  #         --num NUM                    a number (3.14)
  #         --str STR                    a string (one)
  #         --[no-]switch                an on/off switch
  # }

Configurable supports custom data types, nested configs, and config modules.

See the help documentation for more details:

* {Command Line Usage}[link:files/Help/Command%20Line_rdoc.html]
* {Config Syntax}[link:files/Help/Config%20Syntax_rdoc.html]
* {Config Types}[link:files/Help/Config%20Types_rdoc.html]

== Installation

Configurable is available as a gem[http://rubygems.org/gems/configurable].

  % gem install configurable

== Development

To get started, checkout the code from GitHub[http://github.com/thinkerbot/configurable] and run the tests:

  git clone git://github.com/thinkerbot/configurable.git
  cd configurable
  rake test

Please report any issues {here}[http://github.com/thinkerbot/configurable/issues].

== Info 

Developer:: {Simon Chiang}[http://github.com/thinkerbot]
License:: {MIT-Style}[link:files/MIT-LICENSE.html]
